HOWTOBUILD.MD, before:

# How to build

This project uses a CMake script to either build the dependencies in-place, downloading them if required, or using the dependencies available on your system.

The official build uses a shared library (`.dll` on Windows, `.so` on Linux). The static library support is a new adition and still not supported by DSS C-API (work in progress).

Definitions:

- `USE_SYSTEM_SUITESPARSE`: If "OFF" cmake will download the SuiteSparse. If "ON" cmake will use your system's installation if available. Default: "ON".
- `USE_SYSTEM_EIGEN3`: If "OFF" cmake will download the Eigen3. If "ON" cmake will use your system's installation if available. Default: "ON".
- `KLUSOLVE_LIB_TYPE`: If "SHARED" will compile the KLUSolveX as a shared library. If "STATIC" cmake will compile as static library. Default: "SHARED".

## Examples for shell-based enviroments (Linux and MacOs)
### x64 (64-bits)
```shell
#../klusolve
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DUSE_SYSTEM_SUITESPARSE=OFF -DUSE_SYSTEM_EIGEN3=OFF -DKLUSOLVE_LIB_TYPE=SHARED .. 
cmake --build . --config Release
```

### x84 (32-bits)
```shell
#../klusolve
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DUSE_SYSTEM_SUITESPARSE=OFF -DUSE_SYSTEM_EIGEN3=OFF -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_ARG1=-m32 -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER_ARG1=-m32 ..
cmake --build . --config Release
```

Commit message:

Version 1.1 (minus CI updates):
- Several changes to CMakeLists.txt, including new options.
- Remove support for ancient MSVC versions (2008 and earlier).
- Implement `SetMatrixElement`, add it to `klusolvex.map`.
- Remove unused targets from CMake, including METIS EXEs.
- Remove `ifdef`s for MSVC 2008.
- Suppress useless .exp files from MSVC.
- Some work related to METIS for future Diakoptics use (WIP, probably incomplete).
- Remove legacy stack stuff, use `std::vector` instead.
- Implement real (float64) handling, using float64 sparse matrices and solver.
- New `SaveAsMarketFiles`; update Eigen to v3.4.0 for a fix in related functions.
- Remove klu.h from the main header.
- Adjustments for easier integration with the official OpenDSS:
    - Use "unsigned int" instead of signed integers to appease OpenDSS-C.
    - Use "complex" instead of plain "double" in the header.
    - Use "stdcall" convention for Windows x86 (32-bit) build.

HOWTOBUILD.MD, after:

# How to build

This project uses a CMake script to either build the dependencies in-place, downloading them if required, or using the dependencies available on your system.

The official build uses a shared library (`.dll` on Windows, `.so` on Linux). The static library support is a new addition and still not supported by DSS C-API (work in progress, expected to be used in Jan 2025).

Definitions:

- `USE_SYSTEM_SUITESPARSE`: If "OFF" cmake will download the SuiteSparse. If "ON" cmake will use your system's installation if available. Default: "ON".
- `USE_SYSTEM_EIGEN`: If "OFF" cmake will download the Eigen3. If "ON" cmake will use your system's installation if available. Default: "ON".
- `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS`: When "ON", building a shared library (.dll/.so/.dylib). Set to "OFF" to produce a static library instead. Previously, `KLUSOLVE_LIB_TYPE` was used and it's been replaced to provide easier integration with other tools and libraries. Default: "ON".
- `DSS_EXTENSIONS`: If "ON", tweaks the artifact output folders for the release process. Default: "OFF".

## Examples for shell-based environments (Linux and macOS)
### x64 (64-bits)
```shell
#../klusolve
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DUSE_SYSTEM_SUITESPARSE=OFF -DUSE_SYSTEM_EIGEN=OFF .. 
cmake --build . --config Release
```

### x84 (32-bits)
```shell
#../klusolve
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DUSE_SYSTEM_SUITESPARSE=OFF -DUSE_SYSTEM_EIGEN=OFF -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_ARG1=-m32 -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER_ARG1=-m32 ..
cmake --build . --config Release
```
